---
title: "Tokyo ACM SIGIR Chapter Seminar (#1)"
subtitle: "March 30th, 2018 @ Waseda University"
date: 2018-03-12T09:26:47+09:00
tags: ["news", "イベント", "セミナー"]
---

<dl>
    <dt>Date</dt>
    <dd>March 30th, 2018, Friday, 15:10-16:10</dd>
    <dt>Venue</dt>
    <dd>Nishiwaseda Campus 63-05-06, Waseda University</dd>
</dl>

### Getting rid of the ten blue links
<dl>
    <dt>Speaker</dt>
    <dd>Professor Mark Sanderson (RMIT University)</dd>
    <dt>Abstract</dt>
    <dd>
    <p>In this talk, I will first give a brief overview of the IR group at
    RMIT. Then I will describe the work we are doing at RMIT to change one of
    the commonest web pages we all look at: the Search Result Page (SERP). In
    our work we are looking to replace the SERP with a set of answer passages
    that address the user’s query. In the context of general web search, the
    problem of finding answer passages has not been explored extensively.
    Previous studies have found that many informational queries can be answered
    by a passage of text extracted from a retrieved document, relieving the
    user from having to read the actual document. While current passage
    retrieval methods that focus on topical relevance have been shown to be not
    effective at finding answers, the result shows that more knowledge is
    required to identify answers in the document.</p>
    <p>We have been formulating the answer passage extraction problem as a
    summarization task. We initially used term distributions extracted from a
    Community Question Answering (CQA) service to generate more effective
    summaries of retrieved web pages. An experiment was conducted to see the
    benefit of using the CQA data in finding answer passages. We analyze the
    fraction of answers covering a set of queries, the quality of the
    corresponding result from the answering service, and their impact on the
    generated summaries. I will also talk about recent work where we re-rank
    retrieved passages according to the summary quality and incorporating
    document summarizability into the ranking function.</p>
    </dd>
    <dt>Biography</dt>
    <dd>
    <p>Mark Sanderson is a Professor at the School of Computer Science and
    Information Technology, RMIT University, Melbourne. He received B.Sc.
    (hons) and Ph.D. degrees in computer science from the University of
    Glasgow, Glasgow, U.K., in 1988 and 1997, respectively. Mark is an
    Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on the Web; and co-editor of
    Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval.</p>
    </dd>
</dl>
