---
title: "SIGIR 東京支部 2018年度 セミナー 2"
subtitle: "2018年10月5日@早稲田大学"
etitle: "Tokyo ACM SIGIR Chapter Seminar (#2)"
date: 2018-08-22T09:26:47+09:00
tags: ["news", "イベント"]
---

<dl>
    <dt>日時 / Date</dt>
    <dd>2018年10月5日 13:30 - 14:30</dd>
    <dd>/ October 5, 2018 13:30 - 14:30</dd>
    <dt>場所 / Venue</dt>
    <dd>早稲田大学 西早稲田キャンパス 63号館 5階 0506室</dd>
    <dd>/ Room 0506, Building No.63, Nishiwaseda Campus, Waseda University</dd>
    <dd>Same floor as <a href="http://sakailab.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/Nishiwaseda2rsl.pdf">the Sakai Lab 63-0504</a></dd>
</dl>

事前登録不要、参加費無料

### Search Tactics for Real-World Tech Problems
<dl>
    <dt>講演者 / Speaker</dt>
    <dd>Assistant Professor Max L. Wilson (University of Nottingam)</dd>
    <dt>概要 / Abstract</dt>
    <dd>
    <p>
We know lots about certain types of search tasks, even some fairly complicated exploratory search tasks. But some of the hardest ones that many people face on a day to day basis are left relatively un-examined. In this google-funded project, we studied a hyper-realistic search task: how to make a mobile phone safe for a child, and to practically do so for a phone provided to them. There are different solutions that partly address this problem, but also many opinions about how it should be done so. Resolving the task involves discovering options, researching subjective opinions, comparing ideas, and even analysing to decide if you are capable of achieving them. We will present results from this study, with a focus on the tactical and strategic approaches adopted by users.
    </p>
    </dd>
    <dt>略歴 / Biography</dt>
    <dd>
    <p>
Bio Dr Max L. Wilson is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at the University of Nottingham, UK. His research expertise is grounded in Human-Computer Interaction, typically applied to how people search for and explore information, and in how user interfaces can support users in doing so. His recent work has focused on Mental Workload associated with dealing with information using fNIRS to study brain activation during tasks. Max publishes in both the SIGIR and HCI communities, including a book on Search User Interface Design. Max is an associate editor for IJHCS, sites on the steering committee for ACM CHIIR, and frequently takes part in the organisation of CHI conferences.
    </p>
    </dd>
</dl>
